RESEARCH COSTS AND SOCIAL RETURNS: HYBRID CORN AND RELATED INNOVATIONS
Both private and public expenditures on "research and development" have grown very rapidly in the last decade. Quantitatively, however, we know very little about the results of these investments. We have some idea of how much we have spent but very little of what we got in return. We know almost nothing about the realized rate of return on these investments, though we feel intuitively that it must have been quite high. This article presents a first step toward answering some of these questions. The following procedure is used to arrive at the estimate: First, private and public research expenditures on hybrid corn, 1910-55, are estimated on the basis of a mail survey and other data. Then the annual gross social returns are estimated on the assumption that they are approximately equal to the value of the resulting increase in corn production plus a price-change adjustment. The additional cost of producing hybrid seed is subtracted from these gross returns to arrive at an annual flow of net social returns. Using first a 5 and then a 10 per cent rate of interest, I bring all costs and returns forward to 1955, when the books are closed on this development and a rate of return is computed. Research costs are expressed as a capital sum, and returns are converted into a perpetual flow. The estimated perpetual flow of returns is divided by the cumulated research expenditures to arrive at a rate of return that will equalize the present value of the flow of returns with the cumulated value of research expenditures. This procedure leads to the estimate that at least 700 per cent per year was being earned, as of 1955, on the average dollar invested in hybrid-corn research.
Investment returns rates, Corn, Cost estimates, Sorghum, Corn prices, Hybrid seeds, Cost benefit ratio, Public investments, Capital costs, Crop science

Introducing Social Innovation
This paper reports the processes by which an interdisciplinary research project overcame the usual problems of antagonism among disciplines and succeeded in introducing a number of social innovations into a community. In terms of the experience five "principles" of successful social innovation are suggested: (a) the principle of maximum investment, (b) the principle of co-optation, (c) the principle of egalitarian responsibility, (d) the principle of research as creative play, and (e) the principle of ideological research leadership. A high degree of staff involvement is made possible by a relaxation of superego prohibitions against novelty and originality, by allowing maximum feasible participation of all project personnel, and by providing realistically wide but unambiguous boundaries and limits. Under these conditions the research group may take on certain of the emotionally charged, proselyting characteristics of a small social movement and may have an impact on the community out of all proportion to its size.
Social Innovation

Social Inventions
This paper points out that at various times in the history of society new social forms have emerged, constituting what might be termed "social inventions." Three of these social inventions of the past are examined: role-based social organization, the nation-state, and the corporation. Current trends in social structure are discussed and the emergence of possible social inventions is discussed. These include a social structure composed of mixed rational organization and communal enclaves, between which some persons move periodically; a replacement of the nation-state by a form of organization which separates territorial control from citizenship; the emergence of more transitory work relations; and the development of new styles of social interaction.
Social Inventions

SOCIAL AND PRIVATE RATES OF RETURN FROM INDUSTRIAL INNOVATIONS
For many years, economic analysts and policy-makers have been interested in developing and obtaining better and more complete data concerning social and private rates of return from industrial innovations. It has long been recognized that information of this sort is essential if public policy concerning civilian technology is to be formulated rationally. Yet despite the work of Denison, Fellner. Griliches, Mansfield, Minasian, Peterson, Terleckyj, and others, existing knowledge in this area is far too weak to provide a reasonably adequate foundation for analysis and policy. The purpose of this paper is to report the results of seventeen case studies, each of which estimates the social and private rate of return from the investment in a particular industrial innovation. The results of this paper, although subject to obvious limitations and shortcomings, should provide us with a somewhat better understanding of this topic. The studies described here seem to be the first attempts to make direct measurements of this sort in the industrial sector.
Product innovation, Technological innovation, Investment return rates, Business innovation, Cost estimates, Social innovation, Capital costs, Research and development costs, Research and development, Economic resources

Technology, Social Innovation and the Informal Economy
Unpaid work in the home is an important contributor to national wealth: very nearly half of all work in a modern economy takes place outside the formal economy. A major effect of new technology is to increase the extent of informal production through the development of new productive equipment for installation in private households. Domestic production becomes more efficient, and the pattern of demand for commodities from the formal economy is changed: we buy goods rather than services. This article uses evidence about historical changes in the patterns of use of time, from a number of different developed countries, to investigate the effect of technical change on the relationship between the formal and informal economies.
Informal sector, Employment, Labor time, Social innovation, Service economies, Economics, Shopping, Commercial production, Consumer economics, Recreation

Social innovation: management new dimension
Are we overemphasizing science and technology as this century’s change agents? Social innovations few of them owing anything to science or technology- may have had even profounder impacts on society and economy, and indeed profound impacts even on science and technology themselves. And management is increasingly becoming the agent of social innovation. Here are five examples-five among many: the research lab; Eurodollar and commercial paper; mass and mass movement; the farm agent; and management itself as an organized function and discipline.
Social Innovation, Management´s New Dimension