Social Innovation: Ten cases from Benjamin Franklin
Students of creativity have examined innovation in the arts, sciences, and engineering.Social innovation, the generation and implementation of new ideas about social relationships and social organization, has received less attention. This effort uses a case study approach, drawing from the historic record provided by Benjamin Franklin, to formulate some initial hypotheses about the strategies and tactics used to generate and implement social innovations. It was found that Franklin identified problems based on practical need, analyzed causes carefully, generated contextually appropriate low-cost implementation strategies, and built the support needed for demonstration projects. The implications of these strategies and tactics for innovation in modern organizations are discussed.
Social Innovation, Ten cases from Benjamin Franklin

Towards sustainable households: a methodology for developing sustainable technological and social innovations
A high factor environmental efficiency improvement, towards a Factor 20 by 2050 AD — needed due to the assumed doubling of the world population combined with a fivefold increase of wealth per capita and a halving of the total global environmental burden — cannot be achieved through good housekeeping and technological innovation alone; any technological solutions will have to be combined with social innovations, in lifestyles and cultures. This paper describes the conclusions of the SusHouse (Strategies towards the Sustainable Household) Project that has been exploring possible socially and technologically innovative strategies for sustainable households. The Project has covered three household ‘functions’: Clothing Care, Shelter (Heating, Cooling and Lighting) and Food (Shopping, Cooking and Eating). These have been studied in five European countries (Germany, Hungary, Italy, The Netherlands and the UK). The methodology of the Project has involved stakeholder workshops, the construction of Design-Orienting Scenarios, environmental, economic and consumer assessment of the Scenarios and strategy formulation. The paper describes: (1) the methodology for devising design-orienting scenarios, with examples from the three functions; (2) the results of environmental, economic and consumer acceptability assessments of these scenarios; and (3) comments on how the methodology can be developed and applied.
Sustainable households, developing sustainable technological, social innovations

Innovation as Social Action
The paper explicates the concept of innovation through the lens of social action. It is argued that the term ‘innovation’ carries within it certain semantic contradictions that cannot be resolved without recourse to the theory of social action underlying the process of innovation. By revisiting a number extant concepts and applications within innovation studies and unpacking these in the light of functionalist and conflict theoretical notions of social action, paradoxes as well as fruitful paths for empirical and analytical exploration are identified. A synthesis of how innovation may be interpreted in the language of social action is suggested, which builds on the dialectics between action as mental activity and physical work. 
dialectic, innovation, process, social action

Social Innovation and Civil Society in Urban Governance: Strategies for an Inclusive City
Processes of socioeconomic polarisation and social exclusion mark contemporary cities. In many countries, welfare states are in crisis, suffering from post-Fordist transformations. In cities, new ways of governance are needed to overcome the consequences of economic, social and political restructuring. This article seeks to explore the role of civil society in new urban governance arrangements that will hopefully contribute to counter the trends towards social exclusion. While aware of the ambiguity of civil society’s role in rebuilding governance relationships, it is argued that, under certain conditions, civil society is found to be a valuable contributor towards more cohesive cities and governance arrangements that promote them. Such conditions involve the existence of a multiscalar democratic governance regime that favours public deliberation and social economy initiatives.
Social Innovation and Civil Society in Urban Governance: Strategies for an Inclusive City

Disruptive Innovation for Social Change
What’s required is expanded support for organizations that are approaching social-sector problems in a fundamentally new way and creating scalable, sustainable, systems-changing solutions. Their method, which we call “catalytic innovation,” shares principal features with Clayton Christensen’s disruptive-innovation model. Like disruptive innovations, which challenge industry incumbents by offering simpler, good-enough alternatives to an underserved group of customers, catalytic innovations can surpass the status quo by providing good-enough solutions to inadequately addressed social problems. Catalytic innovations are a subset of disruptive innovations, distinguished by their primary focus on social change, often on a national scale. Disruptive innovations have had a major impact on industry structures, from travel to computer retailing to communications, and have often given rise to social change in the process. But the social changes caused by disruptive innovations are largely unintended; they are simply the by-products of pursuing a business opportunity. With catalytic innovations, however, social change is the primary objective.
Disruptive Innovation, Social Change

Technical and Social Innovation Determinants of Behaviour
Technical and social innovations are relatively new in human history. These innovations appeared in the last two-tenths of one per cent of the time that humans have lived on earth. Prior to innovations, human behaviours could be described and quantified in terms of the same determinants of behaviour as other living systems. A living system science has been developed that is equivalent to the other natural sciences for all, except humans that exhibit innovation behaviours. A brief description of that living systems science is given herein that provides a foundation for treating the technical and social determinants of recent human behaviours. This article treats technical and social determinants of human behaviour as they relate to that living systems science. The article also relates the science back to James G. Miller’s seminal work in living systems theory. 
living systems science; behaviour; innovation; systems; determinants; principles

The Process of Social Innovation
Much of what we now take for granted in social life began as radical innovation. A century ago, few believed that ordinary people could be trusted to drive cars at high speed, the idea of a national health service freely available was seen as absurdly utopian, the concept of “kindergarten” was still considered revolutionary, and only one country had given women the vote. Yet in the interim, these and many other social innovations have progressed from the margins to the mainstream. During some periods in recent history, civil society provided most of the impetus for social innovation (see box, facing page). The great wave of industrialization and urbanization in the nineteenth century was accompanied by an extraordinary upsurge of social enterprise and innovation: mutual self-help, microcredit, building societies, cooperatives, trade unions, reading clubs, and philanthropic business leaders creating model towns and model schools. In nineteenth and early twentieth century Britain, civil society pioneered the most influential new models of childcare, housing, community development and social care. At other times governments have taken the lead in social innovation—for example, in the years after 1945 democratic governments built welfare states, schooling systems, and institutions using methods such as credit banks for farmers and networks of adult education colleges. (This was a period when many came to see civic and charitable organizations as too parochial, paternalist, and inefficient to meet social needs on any scale.)
The Process of Social Innovation

The rise of community wind power in Japan: Enhanced acceptance through social innovation
The purpose of this paper is to analyze the socio-economic dynamics that are brought about by renewable energy technologies. We call this dynamic ‘‘Social Innovation’’ as it changes the rules of risk–benefit distribution and the roles of social actors. For this purpose, we take up a typical case in Japan, community wind power in which the initial cost is funded by the investment of citizens. Through this case study, we examine how the citizens’ initiative can affect the social acceptance of renewable energy as well as social change. Based on interviews with those involved in these projects, we analyze the interests of the various actors involved in community wind power projects in a framework of ‘‘actor network theory’’, which enables us to understand the detail of each actor’s position. This study also involved a quantitative survey of investors. The case study clarified that there was a remarkable difference in the interests of the main actors in the community wind power projects, the networks are complex and actors share various interests such as economic interests and a sense of social commitment, participation and contribution. These incentives are also clarified in quantitative data. However, the variety of incentives differs in each project. 
Social innovation; Community wind power; Actor network theory 

Technological Innovation as Social Innovation: Technology, and the Rise of STS Studies in Cuba
This article describes and analyzes the process of institutionalizing studies on science, technology, and society (STS) in Cuba, and the social and academic circumstances in which these studies are implemented there. The authors give a brief account of how science and technology have evolved in Cuba over the last four decades. The authors argue that the promotion of science and technological innovation in Cuba has purposely taken the form of social innovation. The authors offer our view of how the changes and demands on science, technology, and education can take advantage of the approaches and proposals of STS studies. The authors consider the traditions of thought that have influenced Cuban culture and construct a specific conceptual framework through which contemporary developments in STS are assimilated. Finally, on the basis of the above analysis, the authors describe experiences of the institutionalization of STS and their underlying objectives
STS studies; science policy; R&D in Cuba; technological innovation

Innovation Diffusion in Heterogeneous Populations: Contagion, Social Influence, and Social Learning
New ideas, products, and practices take time to diffuse, a fact that is often attributed to some form of heterogeneity among potential adopters. This paper examines three broad classes of diffusion models—contagion, social influence, and social learning—and shows how to incorporate heterogeneity into each at a high level of generality without losing analytical tractability. Each type of model leaves a characteristic “footprint” on the shape of the adoption curve which provides a basis for discriminating empirically between them. The approach is illustrated using the classic study of Ryan and Gross (1943) on the diffusion of hybrid corn.
Innovation Diffusion, Heterogeneous Populations, Contagion, Social Influence, Social Learning

Navigating the Back Loop: Fostering Social Innovation and Transformation in Ecosystem Management
Addressing the environmental challenges of the 21st century requires substantial changes to the way modern society views and manages ecosystems. In particular, many authors contend that fundamental transformation of the largely sectoral, expert-centered ecosystem-management institutions of modern, Western societies is needed. There is increasing agreement that more adaptive, integrated, collaborative ecosystem-management approaches, interlinked at multiple scales, would improve society’s ability to sustainably manage complex social–ecological systems. Therefore, understanding processes of transformation, and factors that may enable transformation in ecosystem management, has become an active research area. We explore ecosystem-management transformations using a social-innovation framework. Based on three local-level case studies of transformation in freshwater management, we provide a pilot assessment of factors that may promote the emergence and adoption of integrated, collaborative ecosystem-management approaches. Our analysis suggests that ongoing environmental degradation, increasing environmental awareness, and shifting societal values are creating fertile ground for the emergence and adoption of new approaches to ecosystem management. Based on the case studies we examined, we suggest that initiatives that foster environmental awareness and attachment to local ecosystems, develop capacity for social entrepreneurship in the environmental arena, promote dialogue between key stakeholders, and provide institutional support to new institutions may facilitate the emergence of integrated, collaborative ecosystem-management approaches.
adaptive cycle, bridging organization, co-management, complex systems, ecosystem management, social entrepeneur, social innovation, transformation