Navigating the Back Loop: Fostering Social Innovation and Transformation in Ecosystem Management
Addressing the environmental challenges of the 21st century requires substantial changes to the way modern society views and manages ecosystems. In particular, many authors contend that fundamental transformation of the largely sectoral, expert-centered ecosystem-management institutions of modern, Western societies is needed. There is increasing agreement that more adaptive, integrated, collaborative ecosystem-management approaches, interlinked at multiple scales, would improve society’s ability to sustainably manage complex social–ecological systems. Therefore, understanding processes of transformation, and factors that may enable transformation in ecosystem management, has become an active research area. We explore ecosystem-management transformations using a social-innovation framework. Based on three local-level case studies of transformation in freshwater management, we provide a pilot assessment of factors that may promote the emergence and adoption of integrated, collaborative ecosystem-management approaches. Our analysis suggests that ongoing environmental degradation, increasing environmental awareness, and shifting societal values are creating fertile ground for the emergence and adoption of new approaches to ecosystem management. Based on the case studies we examined, we suggest that initiatives that foster environmental awareness and attachment to local ecosystems, develop capacity for social entrepreneurship in the environmental arena, promote dialogue between key stakeholders, and provide institutional support to new institutions may facilitate the emergence of integrated, collaborative ecosystem-management approaches.
adaptive cycle, bridging organization, co-management, complex systems, ecosystem management, social entrepeneur, social innovation, transformation

(Re)Forming Strategic Cross-Sector Partnerships
This study explores the relational processes that underpin social innovation within strategic cross-sector partnerships. Using four longitudinal narratives to document the duality of success and failure in strategic collaborations between nonprofit and for-profit organizations, the authors explain how partners navigate this duality: deliberate role (re)calibrations help the partners sustain the momentum for success and overcome temporary failure or crossover from failure to success. Our grounded framework models three relational factors that moderate the relationship between role recalibrations and the momentum for success or failure: relational attachment, a personalized reciprocal bond between partners, which provides a stabilizing buffer in the face of unexpected contingencies; partner complacency, an insufficient investment that signals temporary misalignments; and partner disillusionment, an erosion of confidence in the other partner’s commitment that diagnoses premature failure.
Social innovation; strategic cross-sector partnerships; relational; processes of social value creation

How Could we Study Climate-Related Social Innovation? Applying Deleuzean Philosophy to the Transition Towns
This paper explores the contribution that the philosophy of Gilles Deleuze might offer to researchers studying social innovation in response to climate change. Since the publication of the Stern Report it has been recognised that climate change requires major changes to the way our economy is organised, but it also requires significant social and behavioural change. Can this be usefully viewed through the prism of theories of social innovation? How might such social innovation affect the life chances of the socially excluded and to what extent does it, therefore, offer a space for radical social change? The Transition Towns —a community movement in response to climate change— Is used as a test-case of these ideas.
How Could we Study Climate-Related Social Innovation? Applying Deleuzean Philosophy to the Transition Towns

Surmountable Chasms: Networks and Social Innovation for Resilient Systems
Complex challenges demand complex solutions. By their very nature, these problems are difficult to define and are often the result of rigid social structures that effectively act as “traps”. However, resilience theory and the adaptive cycle can serve as a useful framework for understanding how humans may move beyond these traps and towards the social innovation that is required to address many complex problems. This paper explores the critical question of whether networks help facilitate innovations to bridge the seemingly insurmountable chasms of complex problems to create change across scales, thereby increasing resilience. The argument is made that research has not yet adequately articulated the strategic agency that must be present within the network in order for cross scale interactions to occur. By examining institutional entrepreneurship through case studies and examples, this paper proposes that agency within networks requires specific skills from entrepreneurs, including ones that enable pattern generation, relationship building and brokering, knowledge and resource brokering, and network recharging. Ultimately, this begins to build a more complete understanding of how networks may improve human capacity to respond to complex problems and heighten overall resilience.
Agency, Complexity, Cross scale, Network theory, Resilience, Scale, Skill sets, Social entrepreneurship, Social innovation, Social networks

How social capital and knowledge affect innovation
This research analyzes the effects of interorganizational links on radical innovation using a comprehensive framework that integrates three research streams: social capital, the knowledge-based view and innovation. Incorporating data from 143 companies of innovative manufacturing and service industries, our results show that while knowledge complexity per se exerts a clear influence on radical innovation, the effect of knowledge tacitness appears only in combination with social capital. Similarly, the mere existence of strong cooperation agreements (relational social capital) does not guarantee more radical innovations, only when combining high levels of social capital with tacit knowledge does this antecedent produce more radical innovation.
Innovation, Radicalness, Social capital, Knowledge complexity, Knowledge tacitness

A social innovation or a product of its time? The Rehn–Meidner model's relation to contemporary economics and the Stockholm school
The Rehn–Meidner model is a central feature of the ‘Swedish model’. It appeared as a report to the 1951 Congress of the Swedish Confederation of Trade Unions (LO), one that presented a coherent economic-policy and wage-policy programme for full employment, price stability, growth and equity (LO 1951). The programme included a restrictive macroeconomic policy, mainly indirect taxes, an active labour-market policy and a solidarity wage policy. The 1951 LO report was the result of team work in LO’s research department, but its policy programme was later aptly called the Rehn–Meidner model (RM model).1 Go¨ sta Rehn – the leading LO macroeconomist at that time – was responsible for the sections on stabilisation policy, while Rudolf Meidner – the head of the LO research department – contributed the sections on wage policy and disorganisation
The European Journal of the History of Economic Thought

Social enterprises: An multi-level framework of the innovation adoption process
This paper puts forth a multi-level framework that examines the adoption process of the social enterprise innovation by existing non-profit organizations. At the organizational level, executives understanding of the complexity and disruptive nature of the social enterprise are constrained by their motivation to reduce funding uncertainty. At the intra- organizational level, culture conflicts emerge when commercial activities are brought within a non-profit’s operations, internal stakeholders may reject commercialization, and managers’ lack of for-profit experience can lead new venture uncertainty. The social enterprise innovation – a solution to funding uncertainty – may ultimately create unintended problems, uncertainties, and failure to use the innovation for its intended purpose.
social enterprises; innovation adoption; non-profit organizations

Social Innovation, Social Entrepreneurship and the Practice of Contemporary Entrepreneurial Philanthropy
The economic crisis has accentuated the social and economic dislocation experienced by disadvantaged communities at a time of unprecedented political and public interest in philanthropy. This has concentrated attention on the contribution that philanthropists might make in addressing socio-economic challenges, and on the role that social innovation might play in regenerating communities. This paper adds to the literature on social innovation and social entrepreneurship which aims to integrate theory and empirical practice. By examining social innovation through the lens of a case study of the Community Foundation for Tyne & Wear and Northumberland, the paper sheds light on how the sites and spaces of socially innovative philanthropic projects may have a bearing on their success. The paper highlights the importance of community engagement on the part of social innovators, and the power of selforganization in re-embedding communities. It suggests that storytelling by committed philanthropists may serve as a powerful proselytizing tool for recruiting new donors.
community engagement, local embeddedness, self-organization, social innovation; storytelling

How social capital is leveraged in social innovations under resource constraints?
Purpose – This paper aims to explore how social capital is leveraged in social innovations to overcome resource constraints. The paper reports on the findings from an exploratory study on the social innovation process within Indian social entrepreneurial ventures (SEVs) developed in a resource constrained environment. Design/methodology/approach – This study adopts an interpretive case study approach to investigating social innovation that enables researchers to identify the cultural contexts within which social entrepreneurship emerges. Views of the social entrepreneurs and intrapreneurs were gathered through semi-structured interviews and observations. Findings – Findings of the study demonstrated that there are distinctive stages of the social innovation process. The stages of the process are initial phase: emergence of a social idea for a venture; development phase: building the social venture; and scaling phase: growing the social venture. These stages of the process lead to the identification of social needs as social entrepreneurial opportunities, then to the initiation, development and scaling of conjectured solutions generating economic and social value. Practical implications – During the development stage of the social innovation, closer relationships with investors could help access scarce financial resources. Finally, in the scaling phase, greater involvement with the target beneficiaries can help reduce marketing and search-related costs for SEVs. Thus, greater engagement of beneficiaries throughout the social innovation process can help in the successful initiation, development and scaling of a social innovation. Originality/value – First, this study identifies the distinctive stages of the social innovation process. Second, this study provides empirical evidence to support previous claims that social innovations develop in resource-constrained environments. Finally, this exploratory research has investigated social innovations in a developing country context – India
Entrepreneurship, Social responsability

Managing social innovation in for-profit organizations: the case of Intesa Sanpaolo
Abstract Purpose – Social innovations are defined as innovative products or services motivated by the goal of meeting a social need, with the opportunity to create new social relationships or collaborations. Although developing social innovations has been the primary concern of non-profit organizations so far, there are signs of an increasing involvement in this type of innovations of for-profit firms, in an attempt to accomplish their corporate social responsibility strategies. This notwithstanding, there is very limited knowledge on how for-profit organizations can develop a capability to manage social innovation projects. The purpose of this paper is to provide exploratory evidence to fill this gap. Design/methodology/approach – The paper presents and discusses a case study of a firm that has been involved in social innovation for years. It is Intesa Sanpaolo, a for-profit organization that leads the Italian banking sector. Findings – The case study points to the existence of three managerial antecedents of a superior ability in social innovation: integrating CSR in its business strategy with a strong commitment from the top management; separating the activities concerned with the development of social innovations from the rest of the organization, following to the structural ambidexterity model; applying the principles of open innovation to the development of social innovations, by involving in particular non-profit organizations as a source of ideas for new social innovation projects and leveraging them to enable adoption of the new products and services. Originality/value – So far there is very limited knowledge on how for-profit organizations can develop a capability to manage social innovation projects. This paper provides exploratory evidence to fill this gap
Ambidexterity, Banking industry, Open innovation, Corporate social responsibility, Stakeholder engagement, Social innovation

Business–nonprofit partnerships: a new form of collaboration in a corporate responsibility and social innovation context
This research analyzes cross-sector partnerships as a new and powerful form of collaboration that encourages the development of social innovation practices. The study focuses on business–nonprofit partnerships and evaluates their influence on the nonprofit’s development of innovations, capability building, and performance. Empirical research is based on a survey of a representative sample of 325 Spanish foundations. Structural equation techniques and multisample analysis served to analyze the data. The results show that close relationships based on trust and commitment foster the nonprofit’s development of innovations, although the intensity of this effect depends on the type of firms’ contribution to the partnership.
Business–nonprofit partnerships, Social innovation, Transformative service research, Corporate social responsibility, Capabilities and resources

Futures, communication and social innovation: using participatory foresight and social media platforms as tools for evaluating images of the future among young people
As many futurists have argued, images of the future have a crucial role to play in societal development. At an individual level, the understanding of people’s hopes, fears and expectations becomes important not only to determine how we look at the future but also to understand our present actions. At a collective level, sharing these images and understanding our role within the community is also essential for the development of a shared vision about the future. Young people stand out as one of main players in this task of building the society of the future, which is why investigating their images of the future should have highly significant implications. The present paper shows the results of a comparative pilot study about the images of the future found among youngsters from 2 different European countries: Spain and Finland. The survey—which involved two groups of university students from the aforesaid countries—has as its main aim to look into the identified cultural values and message sources that can influence the way in which we look at the (expected and desired) future. The importance of this project, which was developed using the web platform www.F212.org—a pilot project funded by FECYT (Spanish initials for Spanish Foundation for Science and Technology)—stems from the idea that the communication and exchange of information about images of the future through social networks will empower new generations to cope with the challenge of building a desired future
s Images of the future, Open innovation,Participatory foresight, Social innovation, Creativity, Social media

Local stakeholder involvement and social innovation in Korean co-operatives: the cases of Wonju and Ansung cities
During the past ten years, much attention has focused on the contribution of co-operatives in satisfying the socially relevant needs of communities. The number of co-operatives has voluntarily increased to attract and network local stakeholders as key players in various regions in South Korea. This paper aims to explain how and to what extent stakeholder involvement in these co-operatives has been successful or limited to meeting new socio-economic needs by focusing on two case studies – namely, Wonju and Ansung cities, which are considered to be relatively successful cases. The paper provides a brief overview of South Korea’s development of the social economy; the two case studies reveal how stakeholder involvement contributes to social innovation in Korean co-operatives. It is obvious that co-operatives are already embedded in Wonju and Ansung and stakeholder involvement contributes to meeting new social needs in both cities. Existing co-operatives and activists have played a considerable role in bridging public, private, and non-profit organizations as well as in facilitating the social innovation.
Local stakeholder involvement and social innovation in Korean co-operatives: the cases of Wonju and Ansung cities

Social innovation: Moving the field forward. A conceptual framework
Research on social innovation has gained momentum over the last decade, spurred notably by the growing interest in social issues related to management, entrepreneurship, and public management. Nevertheless, the boundaries of social innovation processes have not yet been completely defined, leaving considerable space for contributions to both theory and practice. To date, research on social innovation has been polarized between agentic and structuralist approaches. Building on institutional and structuration theories, this article proposes bringing these two approaches together and presents a new conceptual framework to investigate social innovation as a driver of social change.
Social innovation, Social change, Institutional theory, Structuration theory, Institution

From Advocacy to Social Innovation: A Typology of Social Change Efforts by Nonprofits
Literature describing the social change efforts of direct social service nonprofits focuses primarily on their political advocacy role or the ways in which practitioners in organizations address individual service user needs. To elicit a more in-depth understanding of the varying ways that these nonprofits promote social change, this research builds off of the innovation literature in nonprofits. It presents a model of the typology of social innovations based on the empirical findings from survey data from a random sample (n = 241) and interview data (n = 31) of direct social service nonprofits in Alberta, Canada. Exploratory principal factor analysis was used to uncover the underlying structure of the varying types of social innovations undertaken by direct service nonprofits. Results support a three-factor model including socially transformative, product, and process-related social innovations. The qualitative findings provide a conceptual map of the varied foci of social change efforts.
Social innovation Nonprofits Social services Social work Advocacy

The Oak Ridges Moraine as a Social Innovation: Strategic Vision as a Social-Ecological Interaction
The Oak Ridges Moraine (ORM) case is unique in that it represents a social innovation in Canadian, if not North American, ecosystem-based land-use planning. A social innovation is an initiative, product, process, or program that profoundly changes the basic routines, resources, and authority flows or beliefs of any social system. Successful social innovations have durability and broad impact. We interpret the narrative of the ORM conservation process to explore the utility of an emerging social innovation conceptual model, the ‘vision as social interaction’ framework using resilience thinking and the role of vision in social change within complex social-ecological systems. Qualitative data from two interrelated studies of the moraine were reinterpreted and include 38 in-depth, semistructured interviews conducted between 2004-2006, as well as extensive participant observation at over 50 moraine conservation meetings, workshops, and events. The results of our study indicate that emerging model of social innovation can be linked with other models of ‘radical change’ such as those that employ concepts like ‘policy windows’ to describe opportunities for continued innovation once an initiative has reached the routinized phase. Just as with the panarchy cycle, when a social-ecological system reaches the conservation phase, the system has a propensity to collapse and reorganize. Rather than seeing this as the end of an initiative or program, such as is the case with the ORM, stakeholders can see it as an opportunity for reorganization with newly released resources and new opportunities
Oak Ridges Moraine; social-ecological systems; social innovation; strategic vision

Financing Social Innovation for Poverty Reduction: A Case Study of Microfinancing and Microenterprise Development in Bangladesh
Microfinancing is widely perceived to contribute towards social innovation for poverty reduction. We examined the Challenging the Frontiers of Poverty Reduction (CFPR) programme implemented by the Bangladesh Rural Advancement Committee (BRAC) between 2002 and 2007, as it used an innovative approach to microfinancing by transferring assets rather than cash to ultra poor participants. We examined two aspects: (i) the impact of microfinancing through asset transfer instead of cash on social innovation leading to poverty reduction; (ii) the factors that contributed to positive or negative impact on the economic conditions and poverty levels of the participant households and the trajectories of changes experienced by the success and failure cases. For this, we employed survey data from twenty-one beneficiaries and eight in-depth interviews among these households. The study found that participants who demonstrated proper planning, hard work and personal interest in the enterprise through microfinancing have witnessed improved quality of life and poverty reduction, while lack of motivation, absence of proper planning and certain social barriers resulted in failure. Our study makes two major contributions: (i) it fills a gap in the literature on microfinancing of social innovation to help ultra poor households to graduate out of poverty; (ii) it provides policy alternatives for designing appropriate microfinancing programmes for ultra poor which can produce high success rates in reducing poverty through social innovation not only in Bangladesh, but also in other developing countries
Social Innovation, Poverty Reduction, Microfinancing, Microenterprise development

Facilitators and barriers to implementation of the AIDES initiative, a social innovation for participative assessment of children in need and for coordination of services
As part of an implementation evaluation, this study aims to identify the conditions of practice that facilitated or hindered implementation of the AIDES initiative, a social innovation to support collaboration between partners involved with vulnerable children. Evaluators conducted qualitative telephone interviews with 36 respondents (19 practitioners and 17 managers) who participated in the AIDES initiative trial. Respondents were chosen to include all participating organisations (child protection services, prevention social services). Participants’ comments were submitted to descriptive content analysis. Conditions facilitating or hindering implementation of the initiative included the following dimensions: (1) implementation quality; (2) organisational elements (organisational functioning, cooperation between organisations); (3) socio-political issues; and (4) personal and professional characteristics. The study highlights critical elements to consider in implementing and maintaining significant changes in practice in organisations providing assistance to vulnerable children and their families. Social innovations that do not consider such elements are likely to compromise their implementation and sustainability. We must prevent promising social changes from being considered unrealistic or inappropriate due to contextual barriers.
Collaboration, Program evaluation, Implementation Children at risk, Social innovation

Financing Social Innovation for Poverty Reduction: A Case Study of Microfinancing and Microenterprise Development in Bangladesh
Microfinancing is widely perceived to contribute towards social innovation for poverty reduction. We examined the Challenging the Frontiers of Poverty Reduction (CFPR) programme implemented by the Bangladesh Rural Advancement Committee (BRAC) between 2002 and 2007, as it used an innovative approach to microfinancing by transferring assets rather than cash to ultra poor participants. We examined two aspects: (i) the impact of microfinancing through asset transfer instead of cash on social innovation leading to poverty reduction; (ii) the factors that contributed to positive or negative impact on the economic conditions and poverty levels of the participant households and the trajectories of changes experienced by the success and failure cases. For this, we employed survey data from twenty-one beneficiaries and eight in-depth interviews among these households. The study found that participants who demonstrated proper planning, hard work and personal interest in the enterprise through microfinancing have witnessed improved quality of life and poverty reduction, while lack of motivation, absence of proper planning and certain social barriers resulted in failure. Our study makes two major contributions: (i) it fills a gap in the literature on microfinancing of social innovation to help ultra poor households to graduate out of poverty; (ii) it provides policy alternatives for designing appropriate microfinancing programmes for ultra poor which can produce high success rates in reducing poverty through social innovation not only in Bangladesh, but also in other developing countries.
Financing Social Innovation for Poverty Reduction: A Case Study of Microfinancing and Microenterprise Development in Bangladesh

Social innovation through a dementia project using innovation architecture
This paper discusses a methodology for companies to use in conducting a mid-long term project to find unknown markets or customers emerging in the future. The motivation for doing this study was to establish a practical way to handle emerging market requirements for research and development in turbulent markets with a smaller impact requiring few changes or additions to existing business processes. Many companies understand the significance of having a mid-long term marketing strategy. However, adding different types of workflows could be a burden for companies that are concentrating on their daily business operations. The applied methodology uses technology roadmapping (TRM) tools, which are used in organizations as common and visual languages for discussing strategies. This paper proposes an extended application of a TRM tool and demonstrates that companies can handle the challenges of social innovation with a smaller impact. In the authors’ project called “Society Living with Dementia,” the company formed a “virtual team” with new stakeholders that a conventional business process would not be able to manage and created shared knowledge. The contribution is a practical example of a private-sector company that establishes relationships in a step-by-step fashion with potential stakeholders including non-profit organizations, policy makers, and people with dementia to address a social issue.
Technology roadmapping, Innovation architecture, Dementia, Social innovation

Sustainable consumption through social innovation: a typology of innovations for sustainable consumption practices
Social innovations are often assumed to have high potential for promoting sustainable development and transformation towards more sustainable consumption practices. Meanwhile, the spectrum of social phenomena that are labelled as socially innovative is quite diverse and heterogeneous, ranging from urban gardening projects to swapping and sharing platforms to Do-It-Yourself workshops. This article describes a research project where sixty-two cases of potential social innovations for sustainable consumption were analysed, based on a process model combining innovation and practice theory. Thorough document and case analyses revealed five distinguishable types of innovation: Do-It-Together, Strategic Consumption, Sharing Communities, Do-It-Yourself and Utility-enhancing Consumption. These are mainly characterised by differences along four dimensions e innovativeness, formality, communality and personal engagement e each of which is connected to potential problems and advantages in the process of initiation and stabilisation of innovative practices. Based on this typology, type-specific measures to overcome problems and strengthen advantages are presented which help practitioners in politics, administration, associations and foundations to support social innovations for sustainable consumption. For sustainability science the typology can add to a more thorough understanding of the multi-faceted field of social innovation for sustainable consumption. Thereby the study takes up theoretical and practical desiderata stressed by other authors in this field. However, we agree with other authors that further research is necessary to assess the ecological, social and economic impacts of social innovations for sustainable consumption.
Social innovation, Social practices, Sustainable consumption, Policy measures

Creating competitive advantage by institutionalizing corporate social innovation
This study builds on corporate innovation, social innovation, and corporate social innovation literature to develop a preliminary theory. The study then uses case studies to build a framework that describes factors leading to successful corporate social innovation (CSI).The study focuses on social innovations that create social value and competitive advantage. In the framework, three organizational components enhance CSI: strategic alignment, institutional elements, and clarity in intent. Three institutional elements enable CSI processes: stakeholder engagement, operational structures and processes, and organizational culture. Integrating CSI into strategy and operations creates opportunities for co-creation, thereby creating shared value and enhancing competitive advantage. This study concludes by highlighting managerial implications and future research opportunities.
Social innovation, Corporate social innovation, Shared value, Case study method, Cocreation, Competitive advantage

Commercial orientation in grassroots social innovation: Insights from the sharing economy
There is growing interest in the roles of the sharing economy and grassroots innovation in the transition to sustainable societies. Grassroots innovation research has tended to assume a sharp distinction between grassroots organisations and businesses within niches of socio-technical innovation. However, the non-profit sector literature identifies a tendency for non-profit organisations to actually become more commercially-oriented over time. Seeking to account for this tendency, we develop a conceptual model of the dynamics of grassroots organisations within socio-technical niches. Using a case study of Freegle, a grassroots organisation within the sharing economy niche, we apply the conceptual model to illustrate the causes, processes and outcomes of grassroots niche organisations becoming more commercially-oriented. We show that a grassroots organisation may be subject to coercive and indirect (isomorphic) pressures to become more commercially-oriented and highlight the ambiguities of this dynamic. Furthermore, we highlight that global niche actors may exert coercive pressures that limit the enactment and propagation of the practices and values of grassroots organisations. We conclude by highlighting the need for further research exploring the desirability and feasibility of protecting grassroots organisations from pressures to become more commercially-oriented.
Sharing economy, Grassroots innovation, Sustainability transitions, Social Innovation, Collaborative consumptions, Grassroots organisations

Cross-Sector Collaboration, Institutional Gaps and Fragility: The Role of Social Innovation Partnerships in a Conflict-Affected Region
The authors aim to contribute to the literature on subsistence marketplaces and the marketing field more generally by exploring social innovation partnerships in a fragile country characterized by institutional gaps, specifically considering the role of cross-sector collaboration in conflict-affected areas. The empirical setting consists of coffee partnerships in Eastern Congo (DRC), where the authors collected data from and about companies, NGOs and cooperatives, using both primary and secondary sources, including a field trip, interviews and group discussions with farmers and their families. They show results at the organizational level (build-up of managerial capacities; transfer of financial-administrative skills; improved functioning of cooperatives), the farmer level (better prices, livelihoods and access to markets; increased revenues), and more widely in communities considering reduced tensions and collaboration between previously hostile groups, and the creation of new governance modalities in a fragile institutional setting. The study suggests that partnerships may offer a systemic approach to addressing institutional gaps, which seems necessary in such ‘extreme’ contexts. Further implications for research and public policy are discussed.
Development, Fragile states, Institutions, Poverty, Social alliances, Congo, DRC, Kivu, voids

The social innovation potential of ICT-enabled citizen observatories to increase eParticipation in local flood risk management
We live in the age of Big Data, yet many areas of environmental management are still suffering from a lack of relevant data, information and knowledge that impedes sound decision making in the face of change and increasing challenges. A highly relevant phenomenon is therefore the so-called citizen observatories whereby the observations of ordinary citizens, and not just those of professionals and scientists, are included in earth observation and environmental management. Advanced citizen observatories can enable a two-way communication paradigm between citizens and decision makers, potentially resulting in profound changes to local environmental management processes and, as such, in social innovation processes and outcomes. This paper analyses the social innovation potential of such ICT-enabled citizen observatories to increase eParticipation in local flood risk management. The findings from empirical research in two case study locations highlight the divergent roles that authorities conceive for citizens and the role(s) that citizens in practice assign to themselves. Moreover, given the institutional structures identified in these cases and the obligation of authorities to be accountable for their decisions, citizen observatories do not automatically imply that citizens will have a higher level of participation in flood risk management, nor that communication between stakeholders improves
Social innovation, Citizen observatory, eParticipation, Flood risk manegement, Environmental manegement

How to encourage social innovations: a resource-based approach
During the last decade, social innovation has emerged as an outstanding topic for scholars, businesses, and public institutions. This growing interest is due to its potential positive effects on well-being and sustainable development. This study analyzes social innovation under the umbrella of the transformative service research framework. Adopting a resource-based perspective, the research attempts to determine whether the deployment in service organizations of two types of factors that support dynamic capabilities, i.e. internal market orientation, and information and communication technology competence, impacts the extent to which these organizations develop different kinds of product, process, marketing, and organizational social innovations. The study also assesses the impact of these innovation activities on the organization’s transformational performance in terms of increased access to new targets. Empirical research is based on a two-step survey to a sample of Spanish nonprofits (particularly, a representative sample of foundations), since the nonprofit sector provides services that possess inherent transformational characteristics. Results confirm the expected positive effects of these two factors on social innovation and performance, and provide several guidelines for implementing social innovations in service industries
social innovation, transformative services, dynamic capabilities, well-being

Social innovation and the governance of sustainable places
This article explores social innovation as a tool for the promotion of place based sustainable development. The literature highlights the satisfaction of basic needs and situations of crises as two major drivers of socially innovative actions. We use these insights to explore the conditions under which social innovation can lead to social transformation and sustainable place making. We also recognise that social processes occur through, and are shaped by, the material forms that constitute and are constituted in place specific settings. This highlights the deep interconnections that exist between place making and the resources, attributes and characterises - the materiality (such as rivers, soil, trees) - that exist within that locality. It is here that a close tie can be discerned between understanding the adaptive process in complex socio-ecological systems and the role of social innovation in such adaptation. Socially innovative initiatives at the community level can also be scaled upwards through the co-ordinating role of the state, while at the same time act as a pressure for more participatory forms of governance. Governance processes that enhance the role of both economic and social actors in the steering of social change help to infuse more open, democratic practices into social steering. With social, economic and state actors co-mingling as agents of social change, social innovation can come to play a key role in enhancing sustainable human-environment interactions.
social innovation; place making; human-environment interactions; sustainable development; governance.

Social Innovation and Chinese Overseas Hydropower Dams: The Nexus of National Social Policy and Corporate Social Responsibility
The nexus between hydropower dams, social policy and corporate social responsibility (CSR) is a currently understudied topic. This paper aims to fill parts of this gap by discussing these issues in relation to the world’s largest builder of hydropower dams, Chinese state-owned enterprise Sinohydro. This paper draws on the analysis of firm strategy documents and CSR documents and gains additional insights from key informant interviews. The research finds that in 2011 Sinohydro developed its first comprehensive policy framework for social and environmental safeguards that was in line with international standards set by the World Bank/International Finance Corporation. These policies were however later replaced by weaker, vaguer policy. The paper suggests there is a need for Sinohydro and other dam-builders to re-engage with social innovation to mitigate some of the negative social and environmental implications of hydropower dams.
social innovation; hydropower; dams; China; World Bank; standards; CSR; nexus

FACTORS INFLUENCING SOCIAL INNOVATION PROCESSES IN LATVIA: QUALITATIVE RESEARCH PERSPECTIVE
The research reflected in this paper aimed at the determination of social innovation influencing factors in the Latvian context. The qualitative content analysis of the scripts made from the video recordings of the focus group discussion organized with participation of representatives of the fields of entrepreneurship, education, communication, sport and charity, revealed that social innovation influencing factors have dual nature. That duality manifests itself as both promoting and hindering effects of social innovation influencing factors depending on the presence and development level of specific characteristics of the factor, as well as on the context within which the factor acts. The empirical data were analysed with open coding using AQUAD 6 software for the registration of conceptual codes, data processing and creation of frequency tables of categories developed. The research resulted in the revelation of ten social innovation influencing factors: openness to novelty, consciousness, responsibility, proactive thinking, lifelong learning, positive experience, passivity, conservative thinking, power distance and bureaucracy
social innovation, influencing factors, duality of influence, qualitative research, Latvia

Universities’ contributions to social innovation: reflections in theory & practice
Purpose: The purpose of the paper is to resolve a tension in understanding how universities contribute to knowledge-based urban development (KBUD) Design/methodology/approach: The paper is a conceptual paper, which analyses the tension as emerging between the university and the wider societal activity. The paper creates a framework for combining insights from both those theoretical frameworks to better understand why universities might choose to contribute to KBUD. Findings: The paper argues that it is important to understand the benefits that the universities get from participating in the KBUD. This can be through the unique tacit knowledge that emerges in the social innovation process, but their might also be value for the university in terms of two other variables, material resources, and symbolic legitimacy. Research limitations/implications (if applicable): The paper is a literature review and therefore is limited to raising a series of future questions and directions for research in the field, as well as to providing a lens and context for existing work. Practical implications (if applicable): There are clear implications for those seeking to improve universities contributions to KBUD. It is not merely enough for strategic leaders to come together and agree that promoting the university will promote KBUD: it is necessary to modify a range of processes within the university to ensure that a wide range of actors are able to benefit from participating in KBUD activities, and that it facilitates their own teaching & research activities. Social implications (if applicable): For universities to make a substantive contribution to promoting knowledge based urban development, policy-makers must ensure that they do not create disincentives through universities’ teaching & research activities. Originality/value: This is the first time that a paper has sought to bridge between theories of urban development and social innovation, and universities’ internal institutional and organisational dynamics.
Universities third mission, university engagement, social innovation processes, urban development, regional development, social learning communities, grand challenges, stakeholders, institutional sociology

Social innovation through a dementia project using innovation architecture
This paper discusses a methodology for companies to use in conducting a mid-long term project to find unknown markets or customers emerging in the future. The motivation for doing this study was to establish a practical way to handle emerging market requirements for research and development in turbulent markets with a smaller impact requiring few changes or additions to existing business processes. Many companies understand the significance of having a mid-long term marketing strategy. However, adding different types of workflows could be a burden for companies that are concentrating on their daily business operations. The applied methodology uses technology roadmapping (TRM) tools, which are used in organizations as common and visual languages for discussing strategies. This paper proposes an extended application of a TRM tool and demonstrates that companies can handle the challenges of social innovation with a smaller impact. In the authors’ project called “Society Living with Dementia,” the company formed a “virtual team” with new stakeholders that a conventional business process would not be able to manage and created shared knowledge. The contribution is a practical example of a private-sector company that establishes relationships in a step-by-step fashion with potential stakeholders including non-profit organizations, policy makers, and people with dementia to address a social issue.
Technology roadmapping, Innovation architecture, Dementia, Social innovation

What is the Social Innovation Community? Conceptualizing an Emergent Collaborative Organization
Although social innovation is stimulating tremendous interest among scholars and policy-makers, its emergent catalysts are insufficiently understood. This paper thus identifies and explores a relevant collaborative organization, the social innovation community (SIC). Found in cosmopolitan cities, SICs are held together by recognizable shared cultures and online/offline spaces. This account sets out a basic categorization of SICs, profiles their salient features, and offers an original definition. SICs support early-stage social entrepreneurship but may also help to introduce social innovation into new cultural settings, re-programme wider innovation circuits, and promote productive collaboration amid diversity
Social innovation, social entrepreneurship, innovation community, collaboration, networks

How Can Social Innovation be Facilitated? Experiences from an Action Research Process in a Local Network
This paper explores how social innovation can be facilitated, a subject that has not been addressed adequately by literature. The results identify five key factors based on a local network developed in Goierri County (Basque Country, Spain). The network was created to foster local economic development through an action research process. The engagement of the author in this action research process permitted her to adopt an ‘‘inside-out’’ position that enabled her to explore similarities in the assumptions that support social innovation and action research. Through an analysis of this process, the nature of the facilitator’s knowing how is made explicit in understanding how social innovation is facilitated. The main argument is that action research can facilitate social innovation. The process approach that is applied for this analysis increases the reflexive capacity of the author, leading to a contribution of both new theoretical insight and new practical knowledge.
Social innovation  Action research  Facilitation  Local network  Territorial Development

Civic Events in a Dynamic Local Field. The Role of Participation for Social Innovation
Despite the spread of a variety of small-scale civic events, little is known about their potential for promoting innovation and field-wide implications. This paper addresses these points drawing on a study of 52 civic events in Milan between 2006 and 2010, which were set up by 10 nonprofit organizations within a shared local field. In order to assess if and how the observed events relate to a number of transformations that the local field underwent during the research period, an analytical typology of events’ development is proposed. The results suggest that patterns of events’ development are not neutral with respect to the production of field-relevant implications and that the triggering of social innovation processes by events requires pro-active public participation in their development processes.
Participation, events, field, social innovation

The Strategic Challenges of a Social Innovation: The Case of Rang De in Crowdfunding
Crowdfunding sites in developing countries need to work on changing culture and social structures to foster a ‘giving’ culture. Crowdfunding sites must find an appropriate legal status to be able to conduct their business. Online lending platforms need to make a decision on the subsidization expected from lenders. Online lending platforms need to be transparent on their interest rate and lending practices to the microfinance institutions.
The Strategic Challenges of a Social Innovation: The Case of Rang De in Crowdfunding

Universities’ contributions to social innovation: reflections in theory & practice
Purpose – The purpose of this paper is to resolve a tension in understanding how universities contribute to knowledge-based urban development (KBUD). Design/methodology/approach – The paper is a conceptual paper, which analyses the tension as emerging between the university and the wider societal activity. The paper creates a framework for combining insights from both those theoretical frameworks to better understand why universities might choose to contribute to KBUD. Findings – The paper argues that it is important to understand the benefits that the universities get from participating in the KBUD. This can be through the unique tacit knowledge that emerges in the social innovation process, but their might also be value for the university in terms of two other variables, material resources and symbolic legitimacy. Research limitations/implications – The paper is a literature review and therefore is limited to raising a series of future questions and directions for research in the field, as well as to providing a lens and context for existing work. Practical implications – There are clear implications for those seeking to improve universities contributions to KBUD. It is not merely enough for strategic leaders to come together and agree that promoting the university will promote KBUD: it is necessary to modify a range of processes within the university to ensure that a wide range of actors are able to benefit from participating in KBUD activities, and that it facilitates their own teaching and research activities. Social implications – For universities to make a substantive contribution to promoting KBUD, policy-makers must ensure that they do not create disincentives through universities’ teaching and research activities. Originality/value – This is the first time that a paper has sought to bridge between theories of urban development and social innovation, and universities’ internal institutional and organisational dynamics.
Innovation, Tacit knowledge

Social innovations in outsourcing: An empirical investigation of impact sourcing companies in India
Impact sourcing – the practice of bringing digitally-enabled outsourcing jobs to marginalized individuals – is an important emerging social innovation in the outsourcing industry. The impact sourcing model of delivering Information Technology and Business Process Outsourcing (IT–BPO) services not only seeks to deliver business value for clients, but is also driven by an explicit social mission to help marginalized communities enjoy the benefits of globalization. This dual focus has led to the ambitious claim that social value creation can be integral to (and not always by-products of) innovative IT–BPO models. Given the relative newness of the impact sourcing business model there is scarce research about how impact sourcing companies emerge and the process through which entrepreneurs build and operate such companies. This paper draws on a qualitative study of seven Indian impact sourcing companies and develops a process model of the individual-level motivational triggers of impact sourcing entrepreneurship, the entrepreneurial actions underpinning different phases of venture creation and the positive institutional-level influences on impact sourcing. The paper argues that since deeply personalized values are central to the creation and development of impact sourcing companies, the business model may not be easy to replicate. The analysis highlights an intensive period of embedding and robust alliances with local partners as crucial for the scalability and sustainability of the impact sourcing business model. It also emphasizes the role of ‘social’ encoding and mimicry in determining the extent to which impact sourcing companies are able to retain their commitment to marginalized communities.
Impact sourcing; Social entrepreneurship; India; Social innovation

Stepping up: an empirical analysis of the role of social innovation in response to an economic recession
Categorising organisations as either for-profit or nonprofit is a false dichotomy as existing for-profit firms are becoming more socially conscience while nonprofits are adopting profit-making activities to ensure their viability. This paper conceptualises the array of social practices as a continuum of social innovation and empirically demonstrates variation not captured by legal designation. Using a survey from the US state of North Carolina, this paper examines how organisations across the continuum responded to the 2008 economic recession. Results indicate that more socially innovative organisations responded to the increase in need by increasing environmental, community and employee support.
social innovation, social enterprise, organisational forms, social responsibility

A hybrid approach to innovation by social enterprises: lessons from Africa
Purpose – This paper aims to provide a detailed analysis of the key capabilities needed for social enterprises to succeed in the context of extreme poverty. Facilitating growth and alleviating poverty in the world’s most impoverished regions requires introducing innovative solutions to achieve social impact while generating financial returns. Design/methodology/approach – This paper studies two social enterprises operating in Africa. Semi-structured interviewers were conducted with co-founders of the organizations. The transcribed interviews were analyzed through an open coding process, iterated to overarching categories, and compared between the organizations using a grounded theory approach. Secondary archival data and respondent validation were used to triangulate these findings. Findings – This paper proposes a model that highlights five key capabilities social enterprises need to tackle complex societal challenges while overcoming resource constraints and institutional voids. The processes followed to develop and deploy these capabilities are delineated, and the necessity of hybrid mechanisms that blend non-profit and private-sector approaches is shown as a key enabler for social enterprises to meet their dual objectives. Research limitations/implications – This research is limited to two cases studies from two different industries in Africa. Future research would refine and extend the proposed model to increase generalizability. Originality/value – This paper addresses a gap in the literature on understanding innovation and entrepreneurship in Africa, and it proposes a model for innovation derived from data. This paper also offers insights to the growing community of social entrepreneurs looking to develop sustainable solutions to societal challenges.
Innovation, Social enterprise, Inductive research

What is the Social Innovation Community? Conceptualizing an Emergent Collaborative Organization
Although social innovation is stimulating tremendous interest among scholars and policy-makers, its emergent catalysts are insufficiently understood. This paper thus identifies and explores a relevant collaborative organization, the social innovation community (SIC). Found in cosmopolitan cities, SICs are held together by recognizable shared cultures and online/offline spaces. This account sets out a basic categorization of SICs, profiles their salient features, and offers an original definition. SICs support early-stage social entrepreneurship but may also help to introduce social innovation into new cultural settings, re-programme wider innovation circuits, and promote productive collaboration amid diversity.
Social innovation, social entrepreneurship, innovation community, collaboration, networks

Social innovation research: An emerging area of innovation studies?
While the adoption of Social Innovation (SI) in the governance and policy domain has fueled a rapidlyexpanding scholarly literature, this field has become characterized by conceptual ambiguity and a diver-sity of definitions and research settings. This present situation inhibits the integration of findings. Thispaper traces the content, scope and relatively short history of modern social innovation research acrossdisciplines by applying network and bibliometric analyses, and explores their relevance to innovationstudies. Based on data from 172 publications, we analyze scholarly works that directly address the socialinnovation topic, allowing us to identify the precedence, dynamics and the current map of social inno-vation research as an emerging field of study. Our analysis suggests that the SI field is grounded in fourdistinct intellectual communities arising through a somewhat organized diffusion process: 1) CommunityPsychology; 2) Creativity research; 3) Social and societal challenges; 4) Local development. The interest ofSI in the areas of management and entrepreneurship is only very recent and is currently reflected withinexisting communities. We forge conceptual bridges between the two (currently very separate) domainsof social innovation and innovation studies, and the implications of our finding for further research andpolicy are also discussed.
Social innovation, Social entrepreneurship, Social value, Social technology, Bibliometrics Integrative, literature review

Generating social innovation with knowledge engineering
Innovation is one of the determining factors of economic output. The actors of economics have long recognized that in regions where there is a lack of economic and natural science innovation, social innovation can be a compensating factor. This recent research presents a methodology for measuring social innovation potential (index) and defines a knowledge engineering system which helps to generate such innovations. This can be applicable to defining the intevention axis along which social innovation potential can be increased.
Social innovation potential, knowledge engineering

A conceptual approach to the relationships between the social economy, social welfare, and social innovation 
The aim of finding a balance between social and economic benefits, the social economy has reemerged in the crisis of the welfare state. The Fordist welfare state can be characterized by state-provided welfare, the mediation of paid work and welfare by the labor market and redistributive policies. Globally, neoliberalism and the market have given rise to social exclusion; in this context, the social economy is emerging as an alternative to the market domination of societies. This paper aims to construct a conceptual framework of welfare provision in an open innovation era. Design/methodology/approach
The welfare state system between the Fordist welfare state and post-Fordist welfare state is different on provision and delivery of welfare service. To construct the conceptual relation among the social economy, the state and the market and welfare provision in the social economy, this study mainly used the literature review. Findings
Attention should be paid to civil society at the local level to ignite social economy through open social innovation. Various social actors in the local community need to change and develop the social economy with collaborative entrepreneurship and collaborative economic mindsets. Research limitation/implications
This paper presents the welfare service model led by social economy and open innovation, as well as social change. To fill the shortage of welfare provision caused by crisis of the welfare state, social economy is considered as an alternative for neo-liberalism. This study emphasizes that endogenous local development is a prerequisite for social economy as a welfare supplier. Practical implications
In the social economy, reciprocity, democracy, self-help and social capital at the local level are emphasized. Also, open innovation put emphasis on collaboration economy among the local community, firms and the public sector: this emphasis can be expected to affect the welfare provision system and the social relations surrounding welfare. To address social problem and social needs, the social economy can adapt and apply the open innovation model.Originality/value
The previous researches on open innovation mainly deal with the business sector and the public sector, but this paper has a focus on the relation between provision of social welfare and social innovation. The social economy is likely to function properly on the foundation of open social innovation.
Social ewelfare, civil local society, collaboration economy, open social innovation, social economy

Testing the Social Innovation Construct: An Empirical Approach to Align Socially Oriented Objectives,
Stakeholder Engagement, and Environmental
Sustainability
Innovation is not just an economic and or technological tool; it is also a social phenomenon. This paper draws together the concepts of creating shared value, the stakeholder theory, and socially oriented innovation to research companies’ decisions on asserting socially related objectives when innovating. We examine the extent to which this decision process is bounded by constraints related to information and the characteristics of innovation. To perform this study we used a dataset that monitors the innovation activities of companies. This study offers an empirical analysis of the influence on firms’ social innovation orientation. The empirical analysis supports the theoretical framework and identifies the firm’s community links as key factors in developing new innovations, process and product-oriented, which have an impact on the social-innovation orientation of the firm. Additionally, it shows how the setting up of social goals when innovating is affected by the information source and the innovation mode being developed.
Social innovation; stakeholder engagement; environment; sustainable development; eco-innovation

Corporate social innovation: How firms learn to innovate for the greater good
This research explores how companies learn to engage in successful social innovation through the acquisition of tacit knowledge from external parties. The study draws from literature on knowledge transfer, corporate partnerships, and corporate social innovation (CSI) and extends the authors' previous research on corporate social responsibility (CSR) and sustainability-oriented innovation. Observations draw on a five-year longitudinal, multi-company, multinational study of over 70 firms. The research shows that much of the knowledge exchanged in CSI is tacit knowledge that companies develop from shared interactions and experiences. This article describes CSI relationship platforms along two dimensions: 1) distance of engagement from firm value chain, and 2) intensity of investments and interactions. This research relies on inductive methods and aims at pattern definition and theory building rather than theory testing. Specific examples explain CSI processes and provide guidance to managers. The findings have relevance to companies seeking to innovate in the CSR and “shared value” space, to social entrepreneurs, and to researchers interested in these topics
Corporate social innovation, Tacit knowledge Knowledge transfer, Stakeholder engagement, Collaborative innovation, Co-creation, Emergence

Emergent transformation games: exploring social innovation agency and
activation through the case of the Belgian electricity blackout threat
The persistence of current societal problems has given rise to a quest for transformative social innovations. As social innovation actors seek to become change makers, it has been suggested that they need to play into impactful macrodevelopments or “game-changers”. Here, we aim to deepen the understanding of the social innovation agency in these transformation games. We analyze assumptions about the game metaphor, invoking insights from actor-network theory. The very emergence of transformation games is identified as a crucial but easily overlooked issue. As explored through the recent electricity blackout threat in Belgium, some current transformation games are populated with largely passive players. This illustrative case demonstrates that socially innovative agency cannot be presupposed. In some transformation games, the crucial game-changing effect is to start the game by activating the players.
actor network theory; electricity grid; enrolment; game-changers; social innovation; transformation

How game changers catalyzed, disrupted, and incentivized social innovation: three historical cases of nature conservation, assimilation, and women’s rights
We explore the impact of “game changers” on the dynamics of innovation over time in three problem domains, that of wilderness protection, women’s rights, and assimilation of indigenous children in Canada. Taking a specifically historical and crossscale approach, we look at one social innovation in each problem domain. We explore the origins and history of the development of the National Parks in the USA, the legalization of contraception in the USA and Canada, and the residential school system in Canada. Based on a comparison of these cases, we identify three kinds of game changers, those that catalyze social innovation, which we define as “seminal,” those that disrupt the continuity of social innovation, which we label exogenous shocks, and those that provide opportunities for novel combinations and recombinations, which we label as endogamous game changers.
complexity; game changers; innovation; North America; social innovation; transformative change

The co-creation of multi-agent social innovations: A bridge between service and social innovation research
Purpose – The research fields of service innovation and social innovation have, until now, been largely disconnected. At the most basic level, a great many social innovations are services, often public sector services with social entrepreneurs organizing and delivering service innovations. As well as this overlap in the focus of research, scholars in both research fields address socio-economic concerns using multidisciplinary perspectives. The purpose of this paper is to provide a framework that can bridge the two research fields. Design/methodology/approach – Inter-linkages between service and social innovation are shown by identifying research areas in which both find a joint heuristic field. This approach has been illustrated in a set of case studies in the health sector in Europe. Findings – The bridge between social innovation and service innovation research can be built when social innovation is examined through a multi-agent framework. The authors focus on social innovations where the co-creation of novel services is guided by the prominent position taken by citizens, social entrepreneurs or third sector organizations (NGOs or charities) in the innovation process. Of particular interest are the ways in which the interests of individual users and citizens are “represented” by third sector organizations. Practical implications – The case study of the Austrian nationwide public access defibrillation programme provides an exemplar of the process of co-creation by which this social innovation was developed, implemented and sustained. Here the Austrian Red Cross acted on behalf of citizens, organizing an innovation network capable of creating both the demand and the supply side of a sustainable market for the production and safe application of portable automated external defibrillators (AEDs) in Austria. This process involved, first, raising public awareness of the need for portable defibrillators and acting as a user representative when inducing changes in the design of portable AEDs. Later, there was the institutionalization of AED training in every first aid training in Austria, work with local manufacturers to produce this device, and with large user organizations to install AEDs on their premises Originality/value – The paper develops multi-agent model of innovation that enables one to
synthesize key concepts in social and service innovation literatures and, thereby, examine the
dynamics of invention and diffusion of social innovations
Innovation, Organizational innovation, Co-creation, Services, Social innovation

Social innovation success factors: hospitality and tourism social enterprises
An inductive comparative case study method was chosen (Eisenhardt 1989). We compare two social enterprises that, through innovation, enter into the tourism and hospitality management sector. Both cases are work integration social enterprises (WISE), a category of social enterprises that train disadvantaged people with psychological, social, or physical disabilities in order to permanently integrate or reintegrate them into the workplace (Borzaga, Solari 2001). We carefully selected the cases to minimize exogenous variation; both cases are located in Barcelona, Spain, and both of them initially run a production business. We collected data for this study from interviews, archives and publicly available data. Data from different sources were coded using content analysis procedures. Due to the economic crisis, both WISEs, named Icaria and Pila, were forced to reinvent their business in order to survive. Icaria founded a Youth Hostel while Pila, taking advantage of Barcelona’s high number of tourists, started producing handmade souvenirs. Icaria’s change was successful however, Pila is struggling to survive. Analyzing the difference between both innovation processes will shed some light into business model innovation in the social arena. This research is therefore of interest for both, entrepreneurs and academics.
Social innovation success factors: hospitality and tourism social enterprises

Social Innovation and Sustainable Rural Development: The Case of a Brazilian Agroecology Network
Food is central to human beings and their social life. The growing industrialization of the food system has led to a greater availability of food, along with an increasing risk perception and awareness in consumers. At the same time, there is an increasing resistance from citizens to the dominant model of production and a growing demand for healthy food. As a consequence, an increasing number of social networks have been formed worldwide involving the collaboration between producers and consumers. One of these networks, the Ecovida Agroecology Network, which operates in Southern Brazil, involves farming families, non-governmental organizations, and consumer organizations, together with other social actors. Using a qualitative approach based on participant observation and an analysis of documents, the article examines this network. The theoretical framework used is social innovation, which is commonly recognized as being fundamental in fostering rural development. Results show that Ecovida has instigated innovations that relate to its horizontal and decentralized structure, its participatory certification of organic food, and its dynamic relationship with the markets based on local exchanges and reciprocal relations. Furthermore, such innovation processes have been proven to impact on public sector policies and on the increasing cooperation between the social actors from rural and urban areas. 
Ecovida Agroecology Network; social innovation; participant observation; Alternative Food Networks; Participatory Guarantee Systems (PGS); sustainable rural development

A conceptual approach to the relationships between the social economy, social welfare, and social innovation
The recent emphasis on the social economy raises various questions. For example, is the social economy a distinctive sphere separate from other sectors? How can social economy contribute to social welfare and find a balance between social value and economic value? Social economy initiatives launched in communities differ from the powerful, universal welfare states that were able to mediate the interests of the market and those of the working class. Given that state-provided welfare is ineffective, are social economy initiatives effective for contributing to the public good and the public interest? That is, can they operate without being limited to the interests of a few, or of a narrowly construed community? Can the social economy enhance social bonds? Answering these questions requires empirical research and theoretical elaboration. However, prior to such analysis, discourses on the relationship between social economy and social welfare must be reviewed. As an alternative form of social welfare comes under renewed attention, such a review could assist in facilitating desirable change in social welfare. To formulate a new form of welfare provision, the preliminary work of reviewing the dynamics and characteristics of the social economy must be accomplished, and this study focuses on this point.
A conceptual approach to the relationships between the social economy, social welfare, and social innovation

Africa’s game changers and the catalysts of social and system innovation
It is widely recognized that many African economies are being transformed by rapid economic growth driven largely by rising demand for the abundant natural resources scattered across the African continent. I critically review the mainstream gamechanging dynamics driving this process, with special reference to a set of influential policy-oriented documents. This is followed by an analysis of less-recognized game-changing dynamics that have, in turn, been affected by the mainstream game-changing dynamics. These less-recognized game-changing dynamics include energy infrastructure challenges in a context of climate change, securing access to water, access to arable soils, slum urbanism, and food security responses. These mainstream and less-recognized game-changing dynamics provide the context for analyzing a range of African actor networks engaged in social and system innovations. I use a transdisciplinary framework to discuss these actor networks and how they construct their understanding of the game changers affecting their programs and actions. Based on a case study of the iShack initiative in Stellenbosch, South Africa, I conclude that social and system innovations will need to be driven by transformation knowledge co-produced by researchers and social actors who can actively link game-changing dynamics that operate at multiple scales with local-level innovations with potential societal impacts.
African development; social innovation; structural transformation; transdisciplinary research

Social innovation, reciprocity and contentious politics: Facing the socio-urban crisis in Ciutat Meridiana, Barcelona
Taking one of the poorest neighbourhoods in Barcelona as a paradigmatic case, the aim of this paper is to explore the ways in which contestation organised by sublocal grassroots movements in the context of the current urban crisis operates, both in terms of content and form of protest. Our thesis is that resident mobilisation in the neighbourhood of Ciutat Meridiana is expressive of a new cycle of (urban) social mobilisations in Spanish cities. In such mobilisations, more or less spontaneous initiatives which emerged to counteract the effects of the crisis at the community level are simultaneously serving as platforms for reciprocity and political contestation. Establishing a dialogue with the literature on social innovation, in this paper we claim that these micro-local urban practices are linked to broader social movements and thus play a fundamental role in the political empowerment of citizens living in highly segregated and vulnerable urban areas.
austerity politics, economic crisis, social innovation, urban contestation, urban segregation

Social innovation in emerging economies: A national systems of innovation based approach
Drawing insights from the national systems of innovation and social entrepreneurship literature, this article examines how national systems of innovation (NSI) and social entrepreneurship interact to generate social innovation in emerging economies. Through the examination of a case study of the Emergency and Management Research Institute (EMRI), a public private partnership (PPP), social innovation is found to be an interactive bottom-up collective learning processwhere EMRI has developed a newmodel of social innovation. It also highlights the complex context in which social innovation occurs. As a boundary-spanning activity across the public and private sectors, the interactive learning process and associated capability building for social innovation has provided a catalyst for wider social reform and for the development and redesigning of NSI for social innovation-led value creation in emerging economies. Through such an approach, the EMRI has overcome the institutional voids and developed legitimacy through social innovation tailored to the local context; it thereby represents an alternative approach to the often top-down NSI organisations of developed economies.
Social entrepreneurship, Social innovation, National system innovation, Emerging economy, India

Transformative social innovation and (dis)empowerment
This article responds to increasing public and academic discourses on social innovation, which often rest on the assumption that social innovation can drive societal change and empower actors to deal with societal challenges and a retreating welfare state. In order to scrutinise this assumption, this article proposes a set of concepts to study the dynamics of transformative social innovation and underlying processes of multi-actor (dis)empowerment. First, the concept of transformative social innovation is unpacked by proposing four foundational concepts to help distinguish between different pertinent ‘shades’ of change and innovation: 1) social innovation, (2) system innovation, (3) game-changers, and (4) narratives of change. These concepts, invoking insights from transitions studies and social innovations literature, are used to construct a conceptual account of how transformative social innovation emerges as a co-evolutionary interaction between diverse shades of change and innovation. Second, the paper critically discusses the dialectic nature of multi-actor (dis)empowerment that underlies such processes of change and innovation. The paper then demonstrates how the conceptualisations are applied to three empirical case-studies of transformative social innovation: Impact Hub, Time Banks and Credit Unions. In the conclusion we synthesise how the concepts and the empirical examples help to understand contemporary shifts in societal power relations and the changing role of the welfare state.
Transformative social innovation, Governance, Empowerment, Societal challenges, Transformative change

Shaken, but not stirred: Sixty years of defining social innovation
This paper examines the evolution in the conceptualization of Social Innovation (SI) with a view to elucidating the multiplication of uses of the term over the last half century.We performed a comprehensive and systematic literature review extracting 252 definitions of SI through a search of 2,339 documents comprising academic papers, books and book chapters, together research and policy reports. To guide the inductive analysis of pluri-vocal discourses we assume innovation to be a learning-based process involving actors’ interactions and social practices. We apply mixed qualitativemethodologies, combining content analysis based on an interpretivist ontology with cognitive mapping techniques. Our findings show that SI was introduced as an analytical concept by incipient academic communities and has spread in the last decades as a normative concept fuelled by development and innovation policies. SI is defined by a set of common core elements underpinning three different and interrelated discursive ‘areas’: processes of social change, sustainable development and the services sector. We point to some policy implications and a number of promising avenues for research towards the advancement of a broader socio-technical theory of innovation.
Social Innovation, innovation process, collective learning, social practice, social change, technological innovation

Embedding social innovation process into the institutional context: Voids or supports
Social innovation (SI) is a complex construct that is lacking a unifying paradigm in social sciences. However, together with the recent attention towards social change, it requires a theoretical perspective that analyzes the construct within its institutional context (IC)without forgetting that the termis socially constructed. This current study aims to contribute to the literature by exploring and describing the inter-linkages between institutional voids (IVs)/institutional supports (ISs) perspectives and SI process by positioning the actor as the catalyzer and the change-agent. The study tries to explore if existing IVs or supports, which are embedded in social-welfare, commercial or public-sector logics, stimulate SI and result in the development of these ideas. The research setting is deliberately selected as a developing country that deals with plenty of IVs and suffers fromthe lack of ISs; a research setting that exhibits a high degree of heterogeneity and a low institutionalization level. The results indicate that IVs stimulate SIs mostly at the incremental and institutional level where IS is inadequate. The heterogeneity of IVs and a low degree of institutionalization result in the heterogeneity of actions undertaken for SI. Implications for practitioners and scholars are recommended at the end of the paper.
Social innovation, Social entrepreneurship, Institutional void, Institutional support

Harnessing social innovation for energy justice: A business model perspective
This paper uses a business model framework to discuss how principles of energy justice - in particular, equitable distribution of costs and benefits, affordability, due process and greater participation in decision-making - can be embedded in business model innovations for energy, through social innovation. The paper discusses four cases at different scales (local, subnational, regional and global) to highlight opportunities for introducing principles of energy justice into the core of business models of companies. By doing so, the paper offers a critical perspective on the potential of business model innovation to be guided through a more broadly defined understanding of value enhanced by concepts of energy justice. The discussion of the four case studies—the Carbon Cooperative, Robin Hood Energy, RenEsco, and the Yansa Community Interest Company—highlights the importance of creating supportive wider environments for social and business model innovations, such as the development of skills, knowledge and social capital, through interventions coming from multiple levels and focused on different aspects of energy generation, supply and use (i.e. finance and technical implementation). Going against the grain of current policy, the study implies a shift away from upscaling innovations by taking them to the national scale, and towards creating supportive conditions for more local deals in different geographic locations.
Business models, Social innovation, Energy justice, Value, Whole system

Socially responsible innovation in health care: Cycles of actualization
This paper seeks to theorize the mechanism by which socially responsible innovation can provide high quality care for patients within the U.S. health care system. By analyzing three exemplary case studies of health care innovation using content analysis, we reveal the mechanism for socially responsible innovation and also suggest places for future implementation. Socially responsible innovation has already taken place in India through design problem solving (at Aravind Eye Care System), and in the United States through both the Chronic Care Model (across hundreds of hospitals), and Lean Management™ principles (at ThedaCare in Wisconsin). Unlike previous theories of organizational learning such as incrementalism and design problem solving, socially responsible innovation puts the patient at the center of systemic health care solutions. Also unlike previous definitions of socially responsible innovation, our conceptualization provides a mechanism for practical application. When analyzing the three exemplary cases of socially responsible innovation, we drew out elements of previous mechanisms of organizational learning (e.g., psychological safety, trial and error, and positive applied theory, etc.) to create a novel reflective mechanism: cycles of actualization. This new reflective mechanism promotes continuous development and implementation of ideal models of practice. Finally, this paper suggests that medical waste management could benefit from socially responsible innovation. If the U.S. health care system adopted socially responsible innovation, facilities could think more holistically about their duties, enacting patient-centered change, and creating a culture of medicine that promotes learning, reflection, and action.
Healthcare organizations and systems, Incentives in health care, Clinical practice patterns/guidelines /resource use/evidence based practice, Quality improvement/report cards/interventions

An empirical investigation of social innovation initiatives for sustainable urban development
Recent literature on social innovation highlights its conceptual ambiguity and emphasizes how technology has contributed to the renovation of this 200 year old practice, calling for more sector-specific research. Addressing this call, this paper examines how social innovation fits in the urban sustainability discourse and in what way it empowers urban citizens and their communities towards serving their interests. The findings with respect to 29 cases of social innovation initiatives for environmental sustainability across 9 domains suggest that a large spectrum of sustainability challenges and topics are addressed by existing initiatives, which in turn can refer to different urban spatialities. For each initiative we examine the social innovation process, focusing on the types of involved organizations, the underlying innovation mechanisms as well as the use of technology. In terms of citizen empowerment, we examine the empowerment mode, the main beneficiaries of the innovation, as well as the specific outcome of the initiative. Following this analysis, we arrive to the identification and description of four primary citizen profiles in social innovation for sustainable urban development. We close by calling for further research into the perception, behavior and needs that are associated with the identified citizen profiles and their communities.
Cities, Sustainability, Environment, Smart, Technology, Citizen profiles

Does Social Innovation Contribute to Sustainability? The Case of Italian Innovative Start-Ups
Start-ups, among other enterprises, play a major role in the development and/or commercialization of new technologies and the development of national economies, given that firms are the innovation locus for an entire society. In Italy, a recent regulatory intervention has focused on start-ups creating a framework where innovative start-ups are defined and regulated. Among innovative start-ups, those with a social vocation are of particular interest, since they are understudied in the literature. Indeed, the aim of this paper is twofold: to analyze the relationship between social innovation and sustainability in the latter businesses, and try to understand how sustainability could be fostered through them. Italian cases of innovative start-ups will be studied through content analysis applied to the Social Impact Assessment Document provided by firms. Results show that the Social Impact Assessment Document provided by innovative start-ups explicitly pays attention to social innovation and sustainability in different ways. However, the document does not show the link between social innovation and sustainability. Nonetheless, going through these documents, the link between social innovation and the three aspects of sustainability (economic, social and environmental) clearly emerge and therefore could be better managed.
Start-ups; social innovation; technology; sustainability; content analysis; social impact; assessment document

Tackling Marginalisation through Social Innovation? Examining the EU Social Innovation Policy Agenda from a Capabilities Perspective
This paper demonstrates that the capabilities approach offers a number of conceptual and evaluative benefits for understanding social innovation and—in particular, its capacity to tackle marginalisation. Focusing on the substantive freedoms and achieved functionings of individuals introduces a multidimensional, plural appreciation of disadvantage, but also of the strategies to overcome it. In light of this, and the institutional embeddedness of marginalisation, effective social innovation capable of tackling marginalisation depends on (a) the participation of marginalised individuals in (b) a process that addresses the social structuration of their disadvantage. In spite of the highlevel ideals endorsed by the European Union (EU), social innovation tends to be supported through EU policy instruments as a means towards the maintenance of prevailing institutions, networks and cognitive ends. This belies the transformative potential of social innovation emphasised in EU policy documentation and neglects the social structuration processes from which social needs and societal challenges arise. One strategy of displacing institutional dominance is to incorporate groups marginalised from multiple institutional and cognitive centres into the policy design and implementation process. This incorporates multiple value sets into the policy-making process to promote social inn
Social innovation, Marginalisation, Capabilities, Public policy, European Union

Social Innovation and Human Development—How the Capabilities Approach and Social Innovation Theory Mutually Support Each Other
In light of the growing importance of social innovations in addressing the big social challenges, this article examines the need to develop a concept of social innovation as an analytical category. As such, social innovation is grounded in social theory, which looks at its various manifestations, actors and cultural contexts as well as its interrelationship with processes of social change. With recourse to social practice theories and the social theory of Gabriel Tarde, social innovations are analyzed as an intentional new figuration of social practices and as a generative mechanism of social change. Based on the outlined social-theoretical foundation of social innovations, the various interactions between social practices, social innovations and concepts of human development are discussed
Social innovation, Social practices, Social change, Social theory, Human development, Capability approach

The concept of the Anthropocene as a game-changer: a new context for social innovation and transformations to sustainability
After tracing the antecedents of the concept and considering its intersection in social innovation research, we put forward the argument that the Anthropocene concept points to three areas of thought that are strategically imperative and must be accelerated if social innovation theory and practice is to prove transformative and respond to the challenges associated with the Anthropocene. First, we contend that the current debate on social innovation for sustainability lacks a deeper focus on human-environmental interactions and the related feedbacks, which will be necessary to understand and achieve large-scale change and transformations to global sustainability. Many innovations focus on only the social or the ecological, and we believe a more integrated approach will be needed moving forward. Second, social innovation research must confront the path-dependencies embedded within systems, and we propose that the act of “bricolage,” which recombines existing elements in novel ways, will be essential, rather than single variable solutions, which currently dominate social innovation discussions. Finally, we put forward the idea that confronting the cross-scalar nature of the Anthropocene requires revisiting both the scope and temporal nature of social innovations that are most typically focused upon by scholars and funders alike. We believe the concept of the Anthropocene creates new opportunities for social innovation scholars to imagine new possibilities.
Anthropocene; bricolage; scaling; social-ecological systems; social innovation; transformations to sustainability

MATURE SOCIAL ECONOMY ENTERPRISE AND SOCIAL INNOVATION: THE CASE OF THE DESJARDINS ENVIRONMENTAL FUND
This study seeks to understand the nature and process of social innovation driven by mature social economy enterprises, and the innovative capability that supports it. The research examines enterprise capabilities by means of the institutional approach to social innovation and the Resource-Based View theory (RBV). Based on grounded theory, this research focuses on a single case, the creation of the Desjardins Environment Fund (DEF). Launched 25 years ago, DEF is the first mutual fund in North America to include extra-financial criteria in its evaluation of business environmental management practices (fund securities) for the information of individual investors. The findings of this empirical research show how a major cooperative bank can generate social innovation and how this entails organizational innovations. The findings also reveal how these innovations benefit from the strategic and process resources that the Desjardins Movement managed to develop while taking into account both its core business (as a bank) and its purpose (as a cooperative). This study shows that the innovative potential of the mature social economy enterprise should not be underestimated.
Institutional social innovation approach, RBV (resource-based view) approach, cooperative bank, responsible investment, organizational capability, Desjardins, social economy enterprise, environment, mutual fund, social innovation, social innovation

Enabling Ecosystems for Social Enterprises and Social Innovation: A Capability Approach Perspective
The aim of this policy brief is to present policy suggestions in order to create an enabling ecosystem for social enterprises (SEs) and promote their social innovation capacities. These suggestions have been built by adopting the Sustainable Human Development paradigm and a Capability Approach perspective. Therefore, the present policy brief focuses on the concepts of social innovation, SEs, and enabling ecosystem, while also drawing on the findings of the EU7FP EFESEIIS project.1 The EFESEIIS project has analysed how SEs relate to, and co-evolve with, the ecosystem in which they are set, and how they contribute to Sustainable Human Development via social innovation. The research was based on a mixed-methods approach including interviews and focus groups with 164 SE stakeholders, a survey of 850 SEs in 11 EU countries, and behavioural experiments with SE decision-makers. The research found that ecosystems can both hinder and enable SEs in achieving their objectives and, more generally, in fostering social innovation and Sustainable Human Development.
Social innovation, Social enterprises, Sustainable human development, Capability approach, European union, Policy brief

Coproduced game-changing in transformative social innovation: reconnecting the “broken city” of Rio de Janeiro
Social innovation is gaining attention for its potential for system transformations. It is often initiated by grassroots collectives, which can become successful through support from other actors and through certain game-changing events or developments. We highlight how transformative social innovation is a highly dispersed, coproduced process of changing social relations. This coproduction is unfolded through a case of interacting interventions in the socio-spatial structure of the city of Rio de Janeiro. Frequently referred to as a “broken city,” the city suffers from various social challenges related to the socio-spatial cleavages between the welldeveloped and the marginalized areas, the favelas. Following a nested-case approach, we describe two policy measures and three social innovation initiatives intended to reconnect the broken city. We analyze their effects as well as their various interactions. The findings give reasons for considering the policy measures as “game-changers” that allow new courses of play. Still, the key observation about these intertwined socio-spatial interventions is that the broken city is undergoing more dispersed game-changing. Further observing how the reconnections constitute different kinds of changing mobility, we conclude with reflections on mobility-related game-changing.
coproduction; game-changers; social innovation; socio-spatial relations; transformation

Social Innovation in Latin America
This paper demonstrates that the capabilities approach offers a number of conceptual and evaluative benefits for understanding social innovation and—in particular, its capacity to tackle marginalisation. Focusing on the substantive freedoms and achieved functionings of individuals introduces a multidimensional, plural appreciation of disadvantage, but also of the strategies to overcome it. In light of this, and the institutional embeddedness of marginalisation, effective social innovation capable of tackling marginalisation depends on (a) the participation of marginalised individuals in (b) a process that addresses the social structuration of their disadvantage. In spite of the high-level ideals endorsed by the European Union (EU), social innovation tends to be supported through EU policy instruments as a means towards the maintenance of prevailing institutions, networks and cognitive ends. This belies the transformative potential of social innovation emphasised in EU policy documentation and neglects the social structuration processes from which social needs and societal challenges arise. One strategy of displacing institutional dominance is to incorporate groups marginalised from multiple institutional and cognitive centres into the policy design and implementation process. This incorporates multiple value sets into the policy-making process to promote social innovation that is grounded in the doings and beings that all individuals have reason to value.
Social innovation, Latin America, Project SI-DRIVE, Global mapping, Role of government, Policy recommendations

Catalysing innovation for social impact: The role of social enterprises in the Indian sanitation sector
One of the roles of social entrepreneurshipwithin a national systemof innovation (NSI) is to generate and ensure effective adoption of innovations that address underserved needs. However, many such innovations do not achieve the expected social impact. Why? Our paper explores answers to this question by considering access to sanitation as a basic need and ‘toilets’ as an innovation for those who had no prior access to one. We trace the evolution of the Indian sanitation sector and then delve into the process of sanitation coverage in an Indian village.Weshow that demand for social entrepreneurship is being increasingly satisfied by third party sponsored social enterprises. However, there is systemic uncertainty about the efforts required to catalyze demand and strategic uncertainty about the social enterprise's capabilities and intentions. Long term impact is jointly determined by the true intention of the social enterprise, its capabilities and the nature of contextual challenges. Therefore, forecasting of social change should integrate the incentives within NSI for social entrepreneurship to make high-quality sustained social impact rather than short-lived ones. This will not only depend on the willingness to adopt, but also the monitoring systems, impact analysis and sustainability audits that social entrepreneurship is subject to.
Social entrepreneur; Social entrepreneurship; Social enterprise; National system of innovation; India; Sanitation; Base of the Pyramid (BoP)

An empirical investigation of social innovation initiatives for sustainable urban development
Recent literature on social innovation highlights its conceptual ambiguity and emphasizes how technology has contributed to the renovation of this 200 year old practice, calling for more sector-specific research. Addressing this call, this paper examines how social innovation fits in the urban sustainability discourse and in what way it empowers urban citizens and their communities towards serving their interests. The findings with respect to 29 cases of social innovation initiatives for environmental sustainability across 9 domains suggest that a large spectrum of sustainability challenges and topics are addressed by existing initiatives, which in turn can refer to different urban spatialities. For each initiative we examine the social innovation process, focusing on the types of involved organizations, the underlying innovation mechanisms as well as the use of technology. In terms of citizen empowerment, we examine the empowerment mode, the main beneficiaries of the innovation, as well as the specific outcome of the initiative. Following this analysis, we arrive to the identification and description of four primary citizen profiles in social innovation for sustainable urban development. We close by calling for further research into the perception, behavior and needs that are associated with the identified citizen profiles and their communities.
Cities; Sustainability; Environment; Smart; Technology; Citizen profiles

Inequality and marginalisation: social innovation, social entrepreneurship and business model innovation
Nowadays societies face many societal challenges, among which increasing inequality and marginalisation. This paper uses this key to read the discussion undertaken during the DRUID Conference 2015 ‘Relevance of Innovation’, held at LUISS Business School (Rome, IT). We focus on the speeches, sessions, and debates that were hosted at the conference. We expand them and build on them to advance scholarly discussion on how social innovation, social entrepreneurship and business model innovation can be used to face inequality and marginalisation. The main idea we place at the centre of the discussion is empowerment of marginalised individuals by social innovation initiatives and social entrepreneurial ventures. Business model innovation is seen as instrumental to this, being a crucial tool to foster hybrid organisations and institutions able to merge the social and economic dimensions.
Inequality and marginalisation; social innovation; social entrepreneurship; business model innovation; empowerment of marginalised individuals

Social innovation – A future pathway for Blue growth?
The European Union has launched the Blue growth concept as a strategy for stimulating economic growth in European seas. It is accompanying the core principles of the Green growth paradigm that seek to stimulate smart, sustainable and inclusive growth of economic activities. Focusing on Blue growth, this article examines its adequacy to enable social innovation as a strategy for the use and management of marine resources. Social innovation is interpreted as the changing behaviour of a group of actors joined in a network, leading to new and improved ways of collaborative action within the group and beyond. Social innovation can contribute to changing behaviour across different institutional settings, across markets and public sectors, and to enhancing bottom-up responsible inventiveness towards integration of social, economic and environmental objectives. Based on case-study research it is concluded that, to secure long-term sustainable development over short-term benefits, a social innovation perspective in the maritime domain will depend on cooperation, inclusiveness and trust.
Blue growth, Social innovation, Offshore mussel production, Sustainable development

On the evaluation of social innovations and social enterprises: Recognizing and integrating two solitudes in the empirical knowledge base
Social innovation (SI) is billed as a new way to address complex social problems. Interest in SI has intensified rapidly in the last decade, making it an important area of practice for evaluators, but a difficult one to navigate. Learning from developments in SI and evaluation approaches applied in SI contexts is challenging because of ‘fuzzy’ concepts and silos of activity and knowledge within SI communities. This study presents findings from a systematic review and integration of 41 empirical studies on evaluation in SI contexts. We identify two isolated conversations: one about ‘social enterprises’ (SEs) and the other about non-SE ‘social innovations’. These conversations diverge in key areas, including engagement with evaluation scholarship, and in the reported purposes, approaches and use of evaluation. We identified striking differences with respect to degree of interest in collaborative approaches and facilitation of evaluation use. The findings speak to trends and debates in our field, for example how evaluation might reconcile divergent information needs in multilevel, cross-sectoral collaborations and respond to fluidity and change in innovative settings. Implications for practitioners and commissioners of evaluation include how evaluation is used in different contexts and the voice of evaluators (and the evaluation profession) in these conversations.
Social innovation, Social enterprise, Evaluation, Social accounting, Performance measurement

Environmental management best practices: Towards social innovation
This research investigates exploratory environmental initiatives in tourism companies in Mallorca over five years, with special consideration to those involving partnerships and synergies with other parties (including academic ones), in an exploration of Social Innovation (SI) approaches in the industry. The paper starts with an outline of the growing importance of sustainability within the hospitality industry and its inherent relation with SI. The study draws its empirical material from ten innovative practices on sustainability from small and medium enterprises (SMEs) and a big hotel chain in Mallorca. The data were collected by means of questionnaires and interviews. All cases incorporated SI features (partnerships, synergies, circular processes, systemic approach), developing, therefore, towards an integrated system of SI policy and practice. The study indicates that embracing environmental principles alongside social and economic concerns can lead to a systemic approach and these commitments can be regarded as a more solid model of sustainability.
Environmental management, Social innovation, Tourism, Hospitality